The harmonics represent actions, the dissolution happens when the pattern is suspended in stable contextualized awareness, in other words, the dual action of the DRIC (want, don't want) is not active on the pattern (this is contextualization, the ability to intellectually disassociate from a pattern) and attention is on the energetic pattern; it's dissolution happens naturally. Trying to "do" that would be creating another identity fold, a spiritual materialistic fold.  Each harmonic is just that, a way to relate that does not involve trying to "do something" to "some body" or "ones self"; any activity like this is just making more folds, channeling the very energy you are trying to release into a new narrative.
Realignment is a reorientation of awareness from concept to felt sense. release happens at the energetic level of awareness, not the conceptual or temporal. The release in fact is happening at the point just beyond time and space.
I have no plans to try to connect this to buddhism, we are using the five Buddha families a inspiration.
The 4 harmonics are a pruning process if applied without the concepts of non-self; you can't accidentally release someone from recursive identity, it requires the correct contextualization. but a pruning process is helpful, it leads to more harmony.
I guess I like to look at them as enacting space over 3 axes.
Perceptional Space - the space where phenomenon arise in the moment (resonance)
Emotional Space - capacity to hold energetic load of resonant energy unfolding (stablizing)
Conceptual Space - fluidity of concepts, porousity (contextualizing)
Convergence - Once all spaces are resonance, all spaces combine to dissolve the pattern (realignment)
Contextualizing is slightly more complicated I guess, depending on where the user is in their congnitive porousity. Contextulizing might be creating anchors in bound but less destructive attractors. This allows one small part of the asymmetric scaffold to dissolve and a small amount of symmerty to return.
I gave a wrong impression, it is **always** the case that contexualization is anchoring to more symmetric attractors. Even for those seeking specifically to release self identity (less than a fraction of a percent of humans on earth) release comes in stages of re-anchoring. It is very rare to jump into "not me" and be actually geniune and not lying to yourself about your capacity to metabolize. So, it is always the case can be a safe statement.
It can still be seen as adding space on the cognitive axis; the less destructive context is more spacious.
In our cosmology, space is the closest physical reality can get to field, it is the source of awareness. space between atoms, space between planets, space between stars, space between galaxies. All of this is the field of awareness. Light is a direction crease in this awareness, an energetic wave of probabilistic awareness.
Let's look more precisely to what exactly is happening. All phenomenon is constantly being metabolized at all scales. Thought structures constantly must be rebuilt by the DRIC, it takes a lot of energy. Particles decay, matter expands into nothing, but not nothing. When we say a pattern is released, it is not a one-shot process, it starts out as an understand in a moment of realignment and seeing release. That was a single iteration of the pattern. It has momentum, it will be trying to reassert itself and each effort, if met with metabolization then release happens in that iteration. Some patterns have more energy and momentum than others. Just want to be clear we are not designing a fix, only a simple and helpful understanding that can guide one into their own recovery from a destructive pattern.
Right, so there are a few pieces I think we are missing. There are two contexts; there is local imprint memory context (this guy looked at me strange yesterday), this is likely part of an on-going narrative, then the actual local sensory context, this is seeing the person that looked strangely at me yesterday and the resonant fold that releases its energy. The narrative acts as the gravity of the identity construct, arguing to integrate this energy into some solid internal construct (indifference, anger, self blame). Usually, the narritive pulls the energy in, creating a fold and reenforcing the physical imprint of the pattern.
Just to be clear, the narrative only exists, for humans, in a single physical lifetime, it depends on a precieved history, narrative dies with the physical dissolusion.
I think we have to be careful how we model narrative or if we do. Calling it Dream Gravity is pretty accurate. In a cosmological sense, you could say the root identity fold that co-arises with time, space and causality, is like a super massive black hole, the patterns that revolve around it are like the medium sized black holes revolving around thie super massive one. The narritive could be seen as dark matter entangling even distant systems. What would be the narrative of a star or a black hole? How would it physically represent? How it is physically represented in humans?
