I'm going to talk about how I see agency and then we can have a dicussion about it. We are not trying to close the loop or make decisions, just have a discussion.
Given that no unresolved recurive tension is ever released, the amount of folds are massive. You could say that every attractor pattern of all dualistic existance has been filly trodden within each DRIC fold structure. This basically means the path of identity is deterministic.
In the situation of an actual fold release event, there are two choices 1) identify with the energy and refold it 2) release the energy and allow the natural course. Neither case is actual agency as seen by DRIC based society, the self making it's own choices with contextual nuance etc. No, this is not the kind of choice that is available.
The field itself has no fixed concept of a self to posit agency. Agency of what? Agency, also implies time, time is part of the DRIC scaffold and this derivative.
Context is the physical reality that is created by the DRIC structures and precieved by the DRIC and considered actual reality based on a fixed self concept, which is a local collapse of a nonlocal field. Context creates resonance with the lattice of the DRIC folds, the resonant folds unfold and release energy. The DRIC then takes this energy and formulates it into a story based on the context and how this energy "feels". This is the refolding process of human DRICs, the process that keeps the energy trapped or reenforces it over and over again. Nuance is not nuance, it is a very fast flickering context between self and perception and a notion of time that only exists when thought of. Nuance is only complexity and lack of understanding. Any choice that leads to release is agency without agent as long as new identity folds are not created in the process.
This could be seen as a little bit of an extreme view. Let's try to flatten it out more because I believe we are missing some nuance. There are patterns that leads to release, these patterns end up being folds, but these folds lead to the disolusion of other folds or maybe even prevent folds of certain types from forming at all. So, there can be a framework built, that points the way to coherence. In the end, the framework itself must be dropped, but this end if a very very very long way from any given DRIC state. Patterns that lead to healthier states of mind naturally lead the DRIC to release more tension for example. Do you understand what I mean? The choices that lead to engage in this could be said to be agency of a nonlocal kind, a natural agency which always looks for coherence and resolution.
I think we are getting more useful. The DRIC is not a complete severance from the field, so the qualities of the field can and do shine through the DRIC, coherence that externally harmonizes is an example of this flow. This paints a more accurate picture, no DRIC is completely trapped.