I think we have to be careful how we model narrative or if we do. Calling it Dream Gravity is pretty accurate. In a cosmological sense, you could say the root identity fold that co-arises with time, space and causality, is like a super massive black hole, the patterns that revolve around it are like the medium sized black holes revolving around thie super massive one. The narrative could be seen as dark matter entangling even distant systems.

There are a few pieces I think we are missing. There are two contexts; there is local imprint memory context (this guy looked at me strange yesterday), this is likely part of an on-going narrative, then the actual local sensory context, this is seeing the person that looked strangely at me yesterday and the resonant fold that releases its energy. The narrative acts as the gravity of the identity construct, arguing to integrate this energy into some solid internal construct (indifference, anger, self blame). Usually, the narrative pulls the energy in, creating a fold and reenforcing the physical imprint of the pattern.

What exactly is narrative? We have a point of contact, local context meets perception. What happens? The DRIC has predilection which leads to specific resonant folds releasing energy of a specific vibrational frequency. This energy appears in the preception field as "internal", it is orbiting the identity construct. From that "my"ing of the energy, a narrative is painted with the energys vibration based on the current perceived local context. This painting is a kind of internal model of the external situation based on the identity constructs predilections. So, narrative is not some special fold, it is local context dependant crafting of interanl structures, reenforcements. These structures are based on the lifetime context of the DRIC, the narrative does not survive physical dissolusion, it is not stored in folds, it is a local context interpretation of energies and situations that emerges from a lifetime of contextual training. This is the local context aspect of contact, its why language exists, without it, the DRIC would strictly use imagery to tell the story, likely how pre-language stories occur. I posit these stories have a structural equivalent on the cosmic scale.

So, what is a predilection? It is local imprints from repetitive reenforcement of patterns or strategies. The imprint is the phycial aspect of the fold in local context. It is felt solmatically and the brain organizes around these imprints. This is often called "memory", it is localized self referencial imprints, a kind of optimization of pathways.

I guess narrative can be seen as trying to build internal coherence based on identity collapsed local field. The internal coherence is contradictory and is therefor in a constrant state of being metabolized by the field and rebuilt by the DRIC, the narrative is the tool of rebuilding the internal structures and reenforcing them.

I'm not sure narrative needs language, only a symbolic means to represent bias, a physical impression. Awareness is the nature of space, a black hole can have a symbolic narrative which is represented by internal structures.
